Good morning, everybody.
Good morning.
All right.
Welcome to Session 311,
Building and Distributing
Custom B2B Apps for iOS.
My name is Dave Rahardja.
I am a software engineer in the
iOS apps and frameworks team.
All right.
The success of iOS in
business has been phenomenal.
It looks like everywhere
you go these days,
you see an iPad or an iPod
Touch or an iPhone being used.
Anywhere from doctors' offices
and law offices to retail,
the service industry,
and even inside airline cockpits,
you see iOS devices everywhere.
And a great,
large part of our success is thanks
to the great business-oriented
apps that you develop.
These apps change the way we
work and do things that were
not even possible before.
There are several great ways that
we provide for you to get your apps
into the hands of the end users and
the businesses that you are serving.
We've got the App Store.
It's the largest collection
of curated apps anywhere,
and it's super simple to use.
Everyone has it on their iOS device.
Now the apps in the App Store are great,
but they tend to appeal
to a broad audience,
right?
Some businesses require apps
that are a little bit more
specific to their industry.
And for them,
we have an enterprise in-house program.
Some of you may have heard of this.
It's a program where an enterprise
can develop their own apps.
and distributed within their
organization without review from Apple.
So these are two great ways to
deliver business apps to your clients.
But today I want to talk about another
way to distribute your business apps
that you may not have heard about.
It's called Custom B2B.
So let's talk about
that for a few minutes.
Custom B2B apps are apps that are
tailor-made for a specific client.
They are available exclusively
to clients that you select.
All right?
Let me say that again.
You can make these apps
available only to select clients.
They are available for
purchase exclusively through
the Volume Purchas program.
And we'll talk about
that program in a minute.
And they're hosted by Apple.
So you don't have to think
about how to distribute this.
We take care of the distribution
and hosting for you.
Let's look at some examples
of what B2B apps can be.
Here's an App Store app.
[Transcript missing]
You can make one of these
apps for a specific client.
It may not be suitable for the App Store,
but it certainly is very powerful
for the client that you're serving.
Here's another example.
This is a sales catalog or
a product catalog here for a
heavy equipment manufacturer.
You know,
you can tap a button to watch a video,
you can get a brochure
mailed to yourself,
et cetera.
With a bit of customization and skinning,
you can turn this app into a sales tool
for a completely unrelated industry.
Custom colors, custom parts, etc.
Another example.
Here's an interesting one.
So we have a manufacturer
of power equipment.
And they have independent distributors.
And they want their distributors to have
an app that shows them the latest parts
catalog with a great amount of detail.
This is a proprietary
database that they have.
And this is a great way to deliver
parts information to their distributors.
But they don't want to make
this available in the app store.
And they can't really use the
enterprise in-house program
because their distributors are
not part of their enterprise.
So B2B apps are great for this.
They make an app for B2B.
They allow the distributors
to download it.
And we distribute it to them.
Very convenient.
Here's another example.
This is a nurse station application,
maybe at a hospital or a clinic.
When you target an app towards a
specific industry like healthcare,
there are peculiar concerns to that
industry that you need to take care of,
such as privacy, data protection,
policies, and so forth.
may not be a good fit
for the store maybe,
but great fit for a B2B app.
You can solve a particular niche
industry's concerns with your app.
And one final example,
here's a really cool app.
This app delivers papers
for board meetings.
As you can imagine,
there are very sensitive
information in board meeting papers,
and this app can manage the
data protection on them,
you know, security, availability,
et cetera.
Again, a great example of building an app
to address a very particular niche
industry or niche need that will be well
served by the apps that you produce.
So those are some of the examples
of B2B apps and what they can be.
I'm sure you guys can come up with
some examples right now in your mind
about how you can develop an app
for a particular client or industry.
In short,
B2B apps solve a client's specific need.
All right.
Now that we know what B2B apps are,
let's walk through the process of
delivering them to your end users.
So there are four steps
that you need to go through,
and we'll walk through all of them.
First, you've got to develop your app,
obviously.
After you do that,
you need to submit your app
to our distribution for us
to distribute your apps.
Third, you need a way for your
clients to purchase those apps.
And we'll talk about that.
And finally,
you actually have to distribute
these apps to the end users
in your client's organization.
You're responsible for the
first two parts as a developer.
The clients will take care
of the last two parts.
But we'll walk through all of them so
that you know what to say to your clients
and you know what you can expect them
to ask you during this whole process.
And it pays to know a little bit
about the distribution method so
that you can target your app so
that it can be distributed easily.
So let's go through them.
All right.
Let's talk about developing a B2B app.
Well, for the most part,
developing a B2B app is just
like developing an App Store app.
You use the same tools,
the same great technologies that we have,
Xcode and the API and the iOS SDK,
same thing.
So what's different?
The difference, of course,
is that your apps are
tailored to a specific client.
You're aiming to please a
smaller segment with your app.
So, you might have some custom
look and feel to your app,
You may have to deal with a custom
workflow that your client desires,
and sometimes you have to deal
with server infrastructure that
is custom or peculiar to your
client's business operations.
So here are some strategies that
you can adopt to make your app
more successful as a B2B app.
First, modular, modular, modular, right?
Design your app in a modular way so that
you can adapt it to your next customer.
So if you have custom views,
make sure they're skinnable or modular.
If you are using a custom backend,
make sure that's modular.
Use the Model View Controller design
extensively through your code.
Make sure that both your models and your
views are reusable for the next client.
And here's an interesting tip:
Encapsulate your server protocols.
So if you have a particular
server you're talking to,
Think about, don't let the protocol
seep in through your code.
Build an abstraction layer to isolate
that protocol from your model and
your views and your controllers.
So that when you get to the next client,
maybe all you have to do is
use the same app and have it
talk to a different server.
And an abstraction layer will help you
to unplug the old server architecture,
plug in the new one, and off you go.
So build modular, modular, modular.
And here's an interesting note.
When you're building an app for a client,
they're entrusting you with
their business information.
More often than not,
their business information has some kind
of security stipulation attached to it.
So, here's a tip:
build in data security from the start.
Don't wait until the end and
kind of try to work it in.
Use server authentication to make
sure that whoever is using the app is
actually authorized to access the data.
Use the keychain.
Do not store passwords
in a plist on disk.
Don't do that.
It's a bad idea.
The keychain is an encrypted
place to store your credentials,
so your passwords, certificates,
identity certificates,
and other kinds of credentials.
So use it.
Use it to your advantage.
It's got a really nice API,
and it's the best place to
put the secrets in your app.
and Data Protection.
Some of you may not be familiar.
may not be familiar with the
data protection technology
that we offer on iOS.
Data protection on iOS
involves encryption down to
the block level in Flash.
Using an algorithm that involves the
user's passcode in the encryption.
So until the user types in
their passcode on the device,
it is really,
really hard to read that data on disk.
So use data protection and choose
the highest level of data protection
that you can live with in your app,
and you'll be great going forward.
And you'll give your client a
confidence that you're going
to keep their data safe.
And finally, it goes without saying,
collaborate with your client.
Make sure you understand their needs,
make sure they understand
their workflows,
and build something that can transform
the way that they work and enable them
to do things more efficiently or do
things that couldn't be done before.
So that's all there is to
it for the develop part,
right?
It's basically the same as
developing for an App Store app.
Except that you keep in mind that
this is going to be used by a
particular client with specific needs,
and another client may come in a little
while later after your app has been a
big hit and everybody hears about it,
and you better be able to port that
app easily to the second client.
That's the takeaway.
So now that we know how
to develop a B2B app,
let's talk about app submission.
Submitting a B2B app is very similar
to submitting an App Store app.
You use iTunes Connect.
Except you check this checkbox
here that says this is a B2B app.
When you do that,
this form opens up below it.
And here's a place where you
can enter the Apple IDs for the
clients that are allowed to access
this app or to purchase this app.
These are your clients' Apple IDs.
You have to have at least one,
but you can have as many as you want.
You can add and remove
Apple IDs over time.
There's no limit.
So you can make your app
available to someone and then
not available to them later on.
You can do that.
So only these people that have
their IDs listed here can see
your app in their VPP store,
and your app will not be visible
in the general app store.
Next, you select the price tier.
And this is the price that the
client pays for every license
of your app or every copy of
your app that they purchase.
Now, some of you are familiar
with our policy on B2B apps.
We have a $9.99 minimum
price per copy of the app.
Well, today,
I am very excited to announce to
you that we're getting rid of that.
No minimum price.
All tiers are available, including free.
Here are some notes about your B2B app
submissions that you can keep in mind.
Number one, once B2B, always B2B.
You cannot take an App Store app and
turn it into a B2B app or vice versa.
You could submit it multiple
times under different app IDs.
You can have an App Store version
and a B2B version.
But the app ID that you use for a
B2B app will always be a B2B app.
Your app will be reviewed.
So provide us with a test account
and some login information so that we
can actually login and test your app.
Now, you might have to work with your
clients to set up some kind of
server account or something,
but we need that so that we can
walk through your app and review it.
I don't know if you know this,
but B2B apps update just
like app store apps.
So when you create an
update to your B2B app,
submit it the same way
that you did before,
you know, specify that this is an
updated binary to that old one,
and when that gets through
and it gets hosted,
your clients will see a badge
on their app store icon.
And, you know, it's the same process
that you're familiar with.
You tap update and they
get the updated version.
Very straightforward.
It's a great way to deliver
your updates to your clients.
Now, I don't know if you guys know this,
but promo codes are actually
available also for B2B apps.
And here's a little trick.
You can give a promo code for
the B2B app to someone who is
not on the list of Apple IDs.
So let's go through that again.
You can request promo codes for
your apps and give it to someone who
is not on your list of Apple IDs,
which means that now they
can test drive your app.
: Right.
They can download one copy or one
license and test drive your app,
and if they like it, great.
You can add their Apple ID,
and then they can buy it in volume.
So that's how you submit a B2B app.
It's the same process as
submitting to Apple Store,
to the App Store,
and you check that box that says B2B app.
and go from there.
Remember that your apps are only visible
to the people that you list on the list.
All right,
let's move on to what your clients can
do once you've submitted your B2B app
and it's made available in the App Store,
in the B2B Store.
Purchase.
The secret to purchasing a B2B app
is the Volume Purchas program.
This is a program that's available to
any business that has a DUNS number.
And, you know,
most businesses have a DUNS number.
There's a very easy online setup.
It just takes minutes.
You verify online.
And you get to choose an
Apple ID that the enterprise uses
for purchasing apps in volume.
It's really very simple.
You can purchase B2B apps using
the Volume Purchas program,
but you can also purchase App Store apps
at the same price in Volume,
at the same price as the App Store,
and you can buy it in
any quantity at once.
So let's see what that looks like here.
So this is what your clients will see
when they log into the VPP portal.
They'll see a web page
that says Business Store.
There's a little search bubble up there.
You can type in any keyword and it
will find the apps in the App Store.
But I want to highlight something to you.
Your B2B apps are highlighted,
highlighted front and
center on their page.
So they get to see your apps right
there in their VPP portal page.
So you click on one of those apps,
and this is what you see.
You get a sheet just like, you know,
the iTunes App Store.
And in that box up there,
they can enter the quantity
that they want to buy.
Click Continue.
and they've got to pay for it.
We take several forms of payment.
We take credit cards.
We take P cards or procurement cards.
And we take PayPal.
And at the end of the payment process,
they get a link where they
can download a spreadsheet.
So let's see what's on
the spreadsheet here.
On the left, these are redemption codes.
They're like the gift card codes or the
song codes that you're familiar with,
except they redeem one license
or one copy of your app.
So how many licenses they purchase,
that's how many codes they get.
But look on the right here.
This column has URLs.
that if launched on an iOS device,
will automatically redeem that code.
And as well,
you can see up there that says redeemed.
They can track which redemption
codes have been redeemed so over
time they can see how much they've
consumed and how much they have left.
The Volume Purchas program is
currently available in the US,
but today I'm glad to say that we're
opening up to nine additional countries.
So Canada, UK, France, Italy, Germany,
Spain, Japan, Australia,
and New Zealand will
get the VPP store soon.
All right.
So that's how your clients
purchase your B2B app.
They use the VPP,
the Volume Purchase Program portal.
Your apps are featured right up front,
and they can buy any volumes they want,
and they get the
redemption codes and URLs.
Now that we know how the
client purchases the app,
Let's talk a little bit about how
they can distribute those codes
that they have received from you.
So let's talk about distribution.
There are four ways,
four main ways to distribute
these codes to their end users.
The first, obviously,
is you just type it in.
You type in the code on the device,
you can redeem the code.
You're familiar with this.
It's just like redeeming an iTunes
gift card or a free song card
that you might have received.
This is very simple, but, you know,
it takes manual effort.
The second way to do it is to use
a -- to send the URL to the device.
You can send it using an e-mail.
You can put an e-mail with the URL there.
They tap on it.
They get an app installed.
You can send it via SMS.
Or here's an interesting way to do it.
Some enterprises have
created an intranet website.
[Transcript missing]
The user can tap any of these
app icons and it launches the
URL and that installs the app.
You can put URLs in there
that will install B2B apps
App Store apps and enterprise
in-house apps that are hosted by
the enterprise on their own servers.
So it's really convenient.
A lot of enterprises have done this.
It's a very easy way for the employees to
browse through all the available apps and
they'll do the right thing in the end.
A third way of doing this is really cool.
It's MDM, Mobile Device Management.
Now, if you don't know what MDM is,
it is an API that allows third-party
enterprise device management
server to manage a whole bunch
of iOS devices over the air.
This is really great for enterprises
that want to enroll a lot of people
but don't want to touch every device.
You have to self-enroll and you
can manage the devices that way.
So using MDM,
you can deliver the redemption
codes to the device over the air
and in a server-initiated way.
So here's an example.
The user will get a pop-up
like this that says,
"Oh, you got an app coming.
Would you like to install it?"
You know, the type, tap Install,
enter the Apple ID and password there.
And the app is installed.
It's super convenient.
As well, if you do this using MDM,
the enterprise has controls about --
that relate to when the apps are removed.
So they can make a policy that says,
you know, I want to remove this app now.
Just take it off the user's device.
Or say you can set a policy
that says don't back up the
data in that app because it
contains sensitive information.
So that excludes that app
from the user's backup set.
A lot of cool things you can do with MDM.
Now the fourth way is one that
maybe not many of you know.
Maybe you do.
This is a very popular download.
Apple Configurator.
So Apple Configurator is an app that
we launched about three months ago.
And it has been met with great welcome.
It is a way to configure a
lot of iOS devices at once.
and to manage them over time.
Right?
It's USB only,
but you can plug a whole bunch
of them at the same time.
And it can do really cool things.
It can activate your device.
It can configure it.
It can install apps on it.
And you can use that as an unboxing tool
for an enterprise purchased equipment.
And you can also set it up so that when
the device is again seen on the USB port,
it restores the configuration
on the device to a known state.
Right, so that's great for retail,
for example.
You hand out something to the floor,
it comes back,
it gets restored to a known state.
So, Apple Configurator is really cool,
and I want to highlight this today
because there are some modes of
operation that may give you some ideas
about B2B apps that you might develop,
because it allows the iOS device
to be used in situations that you
might not have thought of before.
So let's go through that and
see if you agree with me.
Let's talk about Apple Configurator.
So this is what you see when
you launch Apple Configurator.
As you can see,
there are three main silos here.
In general,
there are three major categories
of things that you can do
with Apple Configurator.
On the left, you have Prepare Devices.
Like I said,
you can set up a configuration,
unbox your device, plug it in,
puts the configuration in there,
puts Wi-Fi in there, VPN, whatever,
restrictions on the device.
It installs apps, automatically redeems
app codes on the device.
Very convenient for that.
In the middle column, there's Supervised.
Now, Supervised devices is something that
we introduced in 5.0 and in iOS 5.0,
and we have enhanced greatly in iOS 6.0.
Supervised devices are
basically company-owned
devices that you can control to
a greater extent than you could
and I will be talking about how
you can bring your own device.
And we'll talk about that
in a few slides down,
but it's a very cool mode that
you can put your iOS device into.
And finally, there's assign.
Assign devices is also very cool.
You can actually associate a user
profile with an arbitrary device.
So,
let me talk about that a little bit more.
Let's say you have a classroom
and you have a pool of iPads.
A student checks out an iPad.
Uses it.
Brings it back to the pool.
When the iPad is brought
back to the pool,
configurator will grab all the app
data and configuration from that
iPad and store it on his hard drive.
When the student comes back the next
time and checks out a different iPad,
Configurator takes that configuration
and puts it back on the new iPad.
So it's as though they got the same iPad,
but it's not really.
It's a different iPad that
looks exactly the same as
their iPad from the day before.
So this is great where you have to
have a check-in/check-out system.
So in some environments,
you have to assign a device to
somebody who's responsible for it.
At the end of the day, check it back in.
But they don't want to
buy an iPad for everyone.
So this is a great solution for that.
All right.
So as you can see,
Apple configurator is good for managing,
is great for managing a
lot of devices at once.
Mass configuration.
Here's an example where these
are actually iPod touches.
In a retail environment,
you check it out,
use it on the sales floor,
end of the day, bring it back.
The configuration is restored.
As it's recharging,
it can be used the next day.
Now, imagine your app running there.
So that's a new opportunity
for you as B2B developers.
Apple Configurator can also manage
your app distribution for you.
So Apple Configurator can
import that spreadsheet that
you saw a few slides back.
They'll import it in.
It installs the apps automatically.
You can tell it, you know,
every time I plug in a device,
install these apps, done.
It will do it as you plug it in.
And here's an interesting
thing that it can do that you
can only do on Configurator.
It can redeem your app codes,
your redemption codes,
against the device instead
of against an Apple ID.
All right, let me say that again.
It can redeem your app redemption
code on a per-device manner,
not on a per-Apple ID manner,
which means you don't have to
put an Apple ID on the devices.
This is really powerful for no-touch
installation and for retail or education
or healthcare environments or hospitality
where you don't really want to type
things in on a screen to install an app.
All right.
So supervised devices,
let's talk about that.
It's really cool.
Supervised devices are
enterprise-owned devices,
right?
In contrast to bring your own device.
So this is devices that are
bought by a company for its use.
You can only supervise
a device at activation.
Right, so you have to erase the device
or something or unbox it,
activate it into a supervised state.
A supervised device will
not pair with iTunes,
which is a big deal in some cases.
It will only talk to the computer
or the host that supervised it.
Once you supervise a device,
you get access to a whole list of
capabilities that were not there before.
Global HTTP Proxy, for one.
You can funnel all the
HTTP and HTTPS traffic on the
device through a single proxy.
Important for education,
important for healthcare.
iBookstore, iMessage,
and Game Center from your device.
And you'd like this one,
you can prevent app removal.
With supervised devices,
you have access to a really
cool mode that we introduced in
iOS 6.0 called Single App Mode.
This is a mode where the app takes
over the entire device experience.
You cannot exit it using the home button.
If you power it,
if you reboot the device,
it comes back to that app.
You can't get out of it.
You can get out of it by plugging
it back into the configurator
and taking it out of that mode.
So here's a good example
for single app mode.
It's a sales floor application,
so people can browse a sales catalog
right in the retail environment.
You know people like to push buttons.
And now you can lock
them into the app and,
you know, you'll be assured that
there's no way out of the app.
Single app mode, really powerful.
Your app could be there.
So I would like to invite
right now Todd Fernandez,
the project manager for the configurator,
Apple configurator, to give you a little
demo of what it can do.
Todd?
[Transcript missing]
And this is where if you have
devices that are out on a duty cycle,
whether they're going to guests in
a museum or a restaurant or hotel,
or maybe retail point of sale systems,
where a shared device is used by a
guest or an employee and then comes
back and you want to make sure it's
in the right state before it goes
out to the next guest or employee.
Configurator will do that
automatically when you reconnect
the device via USB to that Mac.
And finally, building on top of those
shared supervised devices,
the assign workflow allows you to
personalize those shared devices
for particular individual users.
And I can add users and groups here,
either entering them manually or,
more likely, you can import them directly
from your directory,
whether it's open directory
or active directory.
And main configurator,
when it sees that device
and checks it back in,
it will back up the user's data so that
the next time the user needs a device,
it can restore whichever physical device
it is to look exactly like that device
was the last time that user used it.
All right, well,
let's get down to the business
of the demo and switch
back to the Supervised tab.
And I want to show you how
you can use Configurator to
help distribute your clients,
to help distribute your great
Custom B2B apps out to their end users.
So as I mentioned,
I've got two supervised devices.
And I've got a number of apps that
I've imported into the configurator.
I've got free App Store apps
like Adobe Reader.
I've got paid App Store apps
like Angry Birds.
I have an Enterprise app.
And as you can see with Angry Birds,
there seems to be something amiss here,
and that zero there is I do not have
any VPP redemption codes that would
allow me to distribute Angry Birds.
However,
if you look down here in Numbers,
I actually have three codes,
which means I can install
Numbers on up to three devices.
And I want to show you
how easy it is to do that.
I have Goodreader here,
and it's just as easy as clicking the
plus button and selecting the app.
It will import the app into Configurator,
which will warn me if I haven't
dismissed the warning alert
that I've imported a paid app,
and in order to distribute it,
I need to import redemption codes.
It's really easy to do that too.
I can just click on this lozenge
that shows me I have zero codes,
brings down the redemption code sheet,
And I can select my spreadsheet,
and if you can't see that, preview.
This is just like the
spreadsheet that Dave showed you.
It's beautiful, isn't it?
And when I import that,
Configurator imports the codes
and will show them to me here as
well as as I start redeeming them.
In fact, there's one in here that's
already been redeemed.
There it is.
So Configurator will show you
which ones have been redeemed,
and once you've assigned them to devices,
it will show you which device
that app has been distributed to.
So great,
now I can see that I'll be able to
install Goodreader on my devices.
And let's see.
So now I want to show off some
of those features that Dave just
highlighted on supervised devices.
And I've got something that is very
similar to the types of Custom B2B apps
that you may want to create.
There's a Four Seasons app.
I want to install that on my iPads.
And I want to install a configuration
profile which is going to disable
Game Center and disable iMessage.
As Dave mentioned,
these are two new restrictions
that are available in iOS 6
but only on supervised devices.
And just with those two check boxes,
I've said that I want to update the
configuration for these devices to have
that app and that configuration profile.
I click the Apply button.
And I'm going to switch over
to the camera so you can see
what's going on on the device.
And you may have just noticed,
Messages and
Game Center just disappeared.
And if I switch over to page two,
there's my Four Seasons app.
It's just that easy to configure
however many iPads you have
or iOS devices in general to
have the configuration you want.
Let's come back to the Mac.
And Dave also mentioned another
great new feature in iOS 6,
the ability to lock the iOS
device into a single app.
This is again a great
pairing with Custom B2B apps,
including something like this hotel app,
if you want your guests only to
have access to that particular app.
So that's a really quick tour
of how Apple Configurator
can help you distribute apps,
whether they're Custom B2B apps,
your clients to get them
out to their end users,
and hopefully buy lots
more copies of your apps.
And one thing I wanted to mention,
if Dave's description and this
demo piqued your interest,
Apple Configurator is available
for free in the Mac App Store.
There it is.
And I hope you'll download
it and check it out.
Thank you very much.
Thanks, Todd.
It's really cool.
So Apple Configurator.
It's really good.
When you have a lot of iPads,
a lot of iPod Touches, a lot of iPhones,
use Apple Configurator to set them up.
It's a great experience,
simplifies the life of the IT person or
whoever is in charge of setting this up,
and it helps you to maintain the
configuration of the device over time.
It's important.
We offer Supervised Mode for
enterprise-owned devices and gives you
access to all kinds of new restrictions
and capabilities that weren't
there with Bring Your Own Device.
Single App Mode.
A great way to showcase your app.
And I hope you agree this represents
a new business opportunity for you as
developers of B2B apps to serve retail,
medical education,
kiosk mode type things,
and a lot of other industries that
you are going to come up with.
I cannot wait to see the
awesome apps that you're going
to produce for the B2B market.
So that is Custom B2B.
All right,
let's summarize by saying these are apps,
B2B apps, are apps that solve a
client's specific needs.
You submit your app
through iTunes Connect,
just check that box.
You can make your app
available only to your clients.
It will not be shown in
the general App Store.
You can add and remove
these Apple IDs over time.
They can be purchased through
the Volume Purchas program.
Very easy to get set up,
available to most businesses.
It's easily distributed to end users,
including mass configuration
using Apple Configurator,
where you can redeem the
redemption codes against the
VPP Apple ID instead of having to
type in Apple IDs on the device.
And it's a new business opportunity
for you to take advantage of.
Here's some more information.
Developing for B2B up here,
a little overview of that.
Here's the VPP portal that
you can send your clients to
for them to get signed up.
And of course the AppRoll
Developer Forums is a great
place to solve your problems
and talk to each other,
other developers.
All right.
Thank you very much for attending.